{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf440
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Mars Rover\
\

\f1\b0\fs24 This fun game is intended to help students understand how the Mars Rover works and what challenges it faces.  \
\
\ul Step 1:\
\
\ulnone Each student imagines a type of obstacle the Rover might face on the surface of Mars.  Obstacles can range from the mundane (canyons, boulders, dust storms) to the positively silly (force field, ancient alien temple).  Students draw an obstacle of their choice and tape it to the floor of the classroom.\
\
\ul Step 2:\
\
\ulnone Students pair up into teams.  One student is chosen to "be" the Rover.  The other student is Mission Control.  Teams will attempt to navigate from one side of the room to the other.  The Rover student will wear a blindfold, and the Mission Control student will instruct him or her on where to go.  Before the game starts, each team should sit down and write out a list of commands that Mission Control can give to the Rover (for instance, "left" and "right" are useful commands, as are "small", "medium" and "large" to distinguish what kind of steps the Rover should take.)\
\
\ul Step 3:\
\
\ulnone Have students attempt to cross the room.  You may also want to incorporate "night" into the game, explaining that when Mission Control faces away from Mars, it cannot communicate with the Rover.  You can have a competition, seeing which team crosses first, or cooperatively, giving the class as a whole a time limit.  You might also ask each group to pick up certain kinds of samples you can distribute around the floor.
\f0\b \
}